---
layout: newsletter.njk
title: "Don't Imitate Understand - #1"
desc: "The Dangers of Vibe Coding"
number: '1b'
og_image: 'assets/diu_newsletter.png'
---
# {{ title }}

Hello! In this first official issue of the "Don't Imitate Understand" newsletter you'll get:

- Thoughts from me on the dangers of "vibe coding".
- Some interesting links.

<article class="mailing-list newsletter-mailing-list">
  <div id="fd-form-654c34a2f58f74816ab58ded"></div>
  <script>
    window.fd('form', {
      formId: '654c34a2f58f74816ab58ded',
      containerEl: '#fd-form-654c34a2f58f74816ab58ded'
    });
  </script>
</article>

## The Dangers of Vibe Coding
The term "vibe coding" is all over social media. It's the idea of just telling an AI (LLM) what you want to code, and letting it do all the coding for you. You speak in natural language, and AI does the rest.

But we might as well call this "Technical Debt: The Fast Way". LLMs are great at helping you code faster. But there are two major issues with vibe coding:

### Non-Determinism
LLMs are probability machines. They are "non-deterministic" which means they aren't guaranteed to give you an accurate or consistent output for your input. The more output you generate, the higher the probability of a problem arising.

For important, production code, I would never "vibe code" my way there. You need to provide an LLM guidelines, structure, and code review. Even then, LLMs tend to produce complex code with hard-to-find edge case bugs.

Thus, vibe coding works when you're just producing a quick prototype that isn't meant for production. If you vibe code your way to a deployed production app of any importance, at some point non-determinism is going to hurt you. Maybe badly.

### Understanding
Vibe coding, ergonomically, leads to a kind of mental laziness. It's the ultimate copy/paste solution, and leads devs away from understanding the code they are deploying. But at some point you will have to debug the LLM code (and no, the LLM won't always be able to find the problem for you).

You can and absolutely should ask the LLM to explain the code it generates. Even better, tell it to put explanatory comments in the generated code to assist your review (you can always remove comments you don't want in production).

Still, that won't be enough to be confident that a "vibe coded" app is secure, performant, and standardized. *Especially* if you use newer technologies that the LLM doesn't have many examples of in its training set.

### Realism
Terms and approaches like "vibe coding" tend to be pushed more by the people building LLMs (and asking for investor money) than experienced senior developers deploying mission-critical software.

Realistically, LLMs aren't ready to code large important apps without careful developer guidance (and as a non-deterministic technology they will likely always need dev guidance).

By all means improve your prompting skills, learn to give LLMs the best chance at producing good code, and use AI to give your productivity a massive bump. But my advice is not to buy into the vibe coding hype. AI is a probabilistic  tool, not a new reliable level of abstraction.

Think of AI is the ultimate imitation tool. The motto applies more than ever: don't imitate, understand.

## Links
I have two educational links for you this time around:

- <a href="https://bbycroft.net/llm">A visualization of how LLMs work</a>. Just keep hitting space!

- <a href="https://piccalil.li/blog/using-the-step-and-pattern-attributes-to-make-number-inputs-more-useful/">How to improve the UX of number inputs in HTML using step and pattern attributes</a>.

That's it for this first issue. 

Happy coding!

Tony Alicea